---
layout: pr
date: 2023-04-13    
title: "funding: add fundmax flag to OpenChannelRequest"
pr: 6903
authors: [hieblmi]
components: ["funding"]
host: Crypt-IQ
status: upcoming
commit:
---

## Notes

* The majority of the code change is in the `lnwallet/chanfunding` package. The flow for opening channels at the code-level is, roughly, `rpcserver.go` -> `funding/manager.go` -> `lnwallet`. User-specified parameters such as fundmax will reach the `lnwallet` code through this path.
* Check out the channel funding coin selection logic in `lnwallet/chanfunding/coin_select.go`
* Consider checking out `itest/lnd_channel_funding_fund_max_test.go` to have a good overview of fundmax behavior.

## Questions

Questions:
* Did you review the PR and, if so, what’s your overall verdict? (ACK, NACK, concept ACK, unknown, mega-NACK, tACK)
* Did you test the PR and, if so, how did you find the fundmax option?
  * Could it use more documentation on the cli?
  * Did anything break?
* What is the problem that fundmax is trying to solve?
* Why do we disallow setting `LocalFundingAmt` and `FundMax`?
* Why do we disallow setting a psbt with `FundMax`?
* Why do we disable `fundmax` for `CannedAssembler` and `PsbtAssembler`?
* In `lnwallet/chanfunding/coin_select.go`:
  * What does the `CoinSelect` function do?
  * What does the `CoinSelectSubtractFees` function do?
    * How does `CoinSelect` differ from `CoinSelectSubtractFees`?
  * What does the `CoinSelectUpToAmount` function do?
    * How does `CoinSelectUpToAmount` differ from the previous two functions?
* In `lnwallet/chanfunding/assembler.go`:
  * What role does `RemoteChanReserve` play in the `Request` struct?
  * What about `WalletReserve`?