---
layout: pr
date: 2023-06-08    
title: "htlcswitch: attributable errors "
pr: 7139
authors: [joostjager]
components: ["htlcswitch"]
host: halseth
status: past
commit:
---

## Notes

* This PR is related to a proposed BOLT spec change, [pr #1044](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1044)
* [The mailing list](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2022-October/003723.html) post provides more context.

## Questions

* Let’s start with some basics. In the current spec:
    * Who is producing the error in case a payment fails?
    * What does the error message typically contain?
    * Who can read the error?
    * As a sender that just had a payment fail, what should you do on your next attempt?
* Problems with the current spec:
    * How can a malicious routing node producing an error negatively impact the sender?
    * How can a malicious routing node that _did not_ produce the error negatively impact the sender?
    * What are the consequences for the sender?
* In addition to payments failing, maybe even worse are payments that are slow or even seemingly stuck. Is it possible for the sender to avoid slow nodes with today’s spec?
* Now to the “attributable errors” spec change proposal. 
    * On a high level, what is it trying to solve?
    * How is this achieved?
    * That sounds pretty simple, why didn’t we just do this already? What makes that hard?
    * To overcome this last issue, this PR (and the spec proposal) does a clever trick that overcomes this (trading off some usable space in the onion). What is this “trick” (high-level)?
* Detailed (bonus) questions:
    * What’s the space complexity of the solution?
    * We can reduce this worst case space usage by half, how?
* Timestamp:
    * In addition to the error, a single data field is proposed added, what?
    * How can the sender use this field?
* How can the sender determine whether to use this feature?
* Assuming every node understands this new feature, how is it determined whether it should be used or not?
* Summing up:
    * What are the benefits of this proposal?
    * What are the downsides?










