---
layout: pr
date: 2023-05-25    
title: "funding: fund channel with selected utxos"
pr: 7516
authors: [hieblmi]
components: ["funding"]
host: hieblmi
status: upcoming
commit:
---

## Notes

* The PR description itself should provide a good intro.
* This PR is utilizing the `fundmax` flag introduced with https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/6903. It might be helpful to get a rough idea of how it works - especially `CoinSelectUpToAmount`.
* The integration test `itest/lnd_channel_funding_utxo_selection_test.go` provides a good overview of the proposed behavior introduced by this PR.

## Questions

* Did you review the PR and, if so, what’s your overall verdict? (ACK, NACK, concept ACK, unknown, mega-NACK)
* What use cases can you think of where it might be useful to only take a subset of coins in our wallet into account for funding a channel?
* How could the `lncli openchannel --local_amt` flow mix coins that the user potentially would want to keep separate? Hint: Checkout `chanfunding/coin_select.go` - `func CoinSelect()`.
* Is there another way of selecting specific UTXOs to fund a channel? If so, what are pros and cons you can think of for this alternative?
* Since we are manually selecting coins - why are we still calling
    
    * `CoinSelect` in case we `lncli openchannel --local_amt` ?
    * `CoinSelectUpToAmount` in case we `lncli openchannel --fundmax` ?
* Why is `reserve` set to `0` here? (Note, this is the fundmax flow of the PR) https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/e0b2308265da554115cae5ece244c3b5afb7346f/lnwallet/chanfunding/wallet_assembler.go#L382
   * Can you think of an edge case that isn't considered here? What if `sumAll-sumManual < reserve`?
   * Do you see a problem here in the case of the `local_amt` flow? This flow is handled in the `default` case of the switch statement, here https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/blob/e0b2308265da554115cae5ece244c3b5afb7346f/lnwallet/chanfunding/wallet_assembler.go#L431
