---
layout: pr
date: 2024-02-08    
title: "sqldb: InvoiceDB implementation"
pr: 8052
authors: [bhandras]
components: ["database", "invoices"]
host: positiveblue
status: upcoming
commit:
---

## Notes

* We're enhancing LND by introducing a new SQL-based database backend, moving beyond the current SQLite and Postgres support that relies on a simple key-value schema. This upgrade enables us to fully leverage the capabilities of SQL databases, allowing for more sophisticated data management and efficiency.

* This pull request represents a comprehensive update, including modifications to the existing, unreleased schema and queries, and the implementation of a SQL-based InvoiceDB. It also transitions unit test coverage from channeldb and introduces integration tests for the SQL invoice tables, ensuring a robust and reliable database transformation.

## Questions

- How does the LND currently interact with the db to store/load/update its data? How is it different from "native" SQL?
- What is the relation between  PR number #8100 and PR #8052?
- Some Primary Keys changed to "BIGINT PRIMARY KEY", how will that work under the hood?
- What are the main changes in the schema/queries (SQL)?
- What is an effective mental model for AMP invoices as represented in our database??
- Why do we define our own errors, like ErrSQLUniqueConstraintViolation?
- How do we deal with NULL/zero values in our Go and SQL code? Are they always mapped one to one?
- Man, I hate timezones... anything to add to this comment?
- What kind of tests do we need to run for the new backends?
- Why do we have the "skip migrations" flag in our sample config?
- What should we SQLize next!?